# auction-away  
#### Project by [Shoaib Ahmed](https://github.com/ahmedshoaib) and [SaiKumar Immadi](https://github.com/s-xync)

AuctionAway is aimed at providing a modern and seamless online solution to people who want to auction the things they no longer use at much higher prices than the ones offered by good-old classified ads. It can also be used by firms who want to bring their auctioning process online.  

As we are moving into the digital age, Internet access has become a very essential part of our everyday lives. Building on which many processes, today, are moving online. Auctioning, traditionally has been  very location specific wherein the bidder  has to be at the location of auction, failing which he/she stands no chance of bidding for that particular item. Online auctions have changed the way auctioneers run auctions and buyers buy on auctions. Bidders can participate in an auction from anywhere and at anytime. All information of each product is in one central space on the website. Time and Money is  saved by both parties involved in the auction as Buyers do not need to travel to participate in the auction while sellers  do not need to set up a live event.  

AuctionAway provides an Open Auction environment, making sure both seller and buyer make a fair deal, wherein all the details of the auction are logged by the platform. The open nature of the auction promotes healthy competition among the bidders and a gives a sense of satisfaction to the seller. AuctionAway is different from many auctioning portals as it can double up as a service that can be purchased by firms for their own auctions. AuctionAway is being developed using latest state-of-the-art technologies that make the auctioning process highly reliable, flexible, scalable and extremely fast when compared to legacy auctioning systems currently in use, many of which are designed only for the particular company's auction.  
